.\" Manpage for systeroid-tui

.TH SYSTEROID-TUI "8" "2022-04-19" "systeroid-tui" "System Administration"
.SH NAME
systeroid-tui \- manage kernel parameters with a terminal user interface

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B systeroid-tui
[options]

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B systeroid-tui
is used to configure and view kernel parameters with a terminal user interface.

.SH PARAMETERS
.TP
\fB\-t\fR, \fB\-\-tick\-rate\fR <ms>
Use this option to set the tick rate of the terminal. [default: 250]
.TP
\fB\-D\fR, \fB\-\-docs\fR <path>
Use this option to set a custom path for the kernel documentation.
.TP
\fB\-s\fR, \fB\-\-section\fR <section>
Use this option to set the section to filter.
.HP
\fB\-q\fR, \fB\-\-query\fR <query> set the query to search.
.TP
\fB\-\-bg\-color\fR <color>
Use this option to set the background color. [default: black]
.TP
\fB\-\-fg\-color\fR <color>
Use this option to set the foreground color. [default: white]
.TP
\fB\-n\fR, \fB\-\-no\-docs\fR
Do not show the kernel documentation.
.TP
\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
Display help text and exit.
.TP
\fB\-V\fR, \fB\-\-version\fR
Display version information and exit.

.SH EXAMPLES
systeroid-tui \-t 500
.br
systeroid-tui \-s kernel
.br
systeroid-tui \-q "fs.quota"
.br
systeroid-tui \-\-fg-color blue
.br
systeroid-tui \-\-bg-color ffff99 \-\-fg-color 003366
.br
systeroid-tui \-D /usr/share/doc/linux
.br
systeroid-tui -n

.SH KEY BINDINGS
.TS
tab(@);
l l.
T{
Key
T}@T{
Action
T}
_
T{
?, f1
T}@T{
show help
T}
T{
up/down, k/j, pgup/pgdown
T}@T{
scroll list
T}
T{
t/b
T}@T{
scroll to top/bottom
T}
T{
left/right, h/l
T}@T{
scroll documentation
T}
T{
tab, \[ga]
T}@T{
next/previous section
T}
T{
:
T}@T{
command
T}
T{
/, s
T}@T{
search
T}
T{
enter
T}@T{
select / set parameter value
T}
T{
c
T}@T{
copy to clipboard
T}
T{
r, f5
T}@T{
refresh
T}
T{
esc
T}@T{
cancel / exit
T}
T{
q, ctrl-c/ctrl-d
T}@T{
exit
T}
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR systeroid (8)

.SH AUTHOR
.UR orhunparmaksiz@gmail.com
Orhun Parmaksız
.UE

.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright © 2022 Orhun Parmaksız
.RS 0
Licensed under either of Apache License Version 2.0 or The MIT License at your option.

.SH REPORTING BUGS
Report bugs at <https://github.com/orhun/systeroid/issues> or contact the author via email.
.RS 0
See the project homepage at <https://github.com/orhun/systeroid> for full documentation.
